Aristophanes Ἀριστοφάνης, c. 446 – c. 386 BC
11 of his 40 plays have survived.
These plays are Old Comedy. 
Ancient Greek plays are one of three basic forms: Tragedy, Comedy or Satyr Plays.  Athenian Comedy is divided into three time periods: Old Comedy, Middle Comedy and New Comedy.  Old Comedy is preserved essentially in the 11 surviving plays of Aristophanes.
His notable works are:  The Clouds (423 BC), The Wasps (422 BC), The Birds (414 BC), Lysistrata (411 BC), The Women at the Thesmophoria Festival (411 BC), and The Frogs (405 BC).
Also known as "The Father of Comedy" and "the Prince of Ancient Comedy", Aristophanes has been said to recreate the life of ancient Athens more convincingly than any other author.
His powers of ridicule were feared and acknowledged by influential contemporaries; Plato singled out Aristophanes' play The Clouds as slander that contributed to the trial and subsequent condemning to death of Socrates.
It has been argued that Aristophanes produced plays mainly to entertain the audience and to win prestigious competitions.  His plays were written for production at the great dramatic festivals of Athens, the Lenaia and City Dionysia, where they were judged and awarded prizes in competition with the works of other comic dramatists.  The audiences could be as large at 10,000.
Throughout most of Aristophanes' career, the Chorus was essential to a play's success and it was recruited and funded by a choregus, a wealthy citizen appointed to the task by one of the archons. This could be the reason that the plays of Aristophanes preached conservative political values.
Plato's The Symposium appears to be a useful source of biographical information about Aristophanes, but its reliability is open to doubt. It purports to be a record of conversations at a dinner party at which both Aristophanes and Socrates are guests, held some seven years after the performance of The Clouds.  Aristophanes  tells the other guests that he is quite happy to be thought amusing but he is wary of appearing ridiculous.
Aristophanes survived The Peloponnesian War, two oligarchic revolutions and two democratic restorations; this has been interpreted as evidence that he was not actively involved in politics despite his highly political plays.
The language of Aristophanes' plays, and in Old Comedy generally, was valued by ancient commentators as a model of the Attic dialect.   This may have been one of the reasons his plays were copied and survived.  In Aristophanes' plays, the Attic dialect is couched in verse and his plays can be appreciated for their poetic qualities.
It can be argued that the most important feature of the language of the plays is imagery, particularly the use of similes, metaphors and pictorial expressions.