## notes  Chateaubriand's Memoirs from beyond the grave
1768-1800

he already bygone world of his youth. He recounts the history of his aristocratic family and the first rumblings of the French Revolution. He recalls playing games on the beaches of Saint-Malo, wandering in the woods near his father’s castle in Combourg, hunting with King Louis XVI at Versailles, witnessing the first heads carried on pikes through the streets of Paris, meeting with George Washington in Philadelphia, and falling hopelessly in love with a young woman named Charlotte in the small Suffolk town of Bungay. The volume ends with Chateaubriand’s return to France after eight years of exile in England.
In this new edition (the first unabridged translation of any portion of the “Memoirs” to be published in more than a century), Chateaubriand emerges as a writer of great wit and clarity, a self-deprecating egoist whose meditations on the meaning of history, memory, and morality are leavened with a mixture of high whimsy and memorable gloom.
Review: “What distinguishes [“Memoirs from Beyond the Grave”] …is less its historical overview of the turbulence that preceded Napoleon’s rise to power than Chateaubriand’s examination of his own character and feelings amid multiple setbacks. Indeed, it is the lyricism and intimacy of his language, convincingly translated here by Alex Andriesse, that made Chateaubriand a precursor of French Romanticism." —Alan Riding, The New York Times Book Review
About the author: François-René, vicomte de Chateaubriand (4 September 1768 – 4 July 1848) was a French writer, politician, diplomat and historian who had a notable influence on French literature of the nineteenth century. Descended from an old aristocratic family from Brittany, Chateaubriand was a royalist by political disposition. In an age when large numbers of intellectuals turned against the Church, he authored the “Génie du christianisme” in defense of the Catholic faith. His works include the autobiography “Mémoires d'Outre-Tombe”("Memoirs from Beyond the Grave"), published posthumously in 1849–1850.
About the intro.: Anka Muhlstein (born 1935) is a historian and biographer. Muhlstein has been honored twice by the French Academy's prize for history, for her biographies on her ancestor James de Rothschild, the founder of the De Rothschild Frères, and the eighteenth century explorer Cavelier de La Salle.
Muhlstein received the Goncourt prize in 1996 for biography for her work on the French writer Astolphe de Custine called “A Taste for Freedom: The Life of Astolphe de Custine”. Muhlstein 's other works include “Par les yeux de Marcel Proust” (1971), “La Femme Soleil” (1976), “Victoria” (1978), “Manhattan” (1986), “Reines éphémères, Mères perpétuelles” (2001), “Les Périls du Mariage” (2004), and “Napoléon à Moscou” (2007).
In 2008, she and her husband Begley released Venice for Lovers, a collection of essays they individually wrote about Venice.[5] Her Garcon, un cent d'huîtres (Balzac's Omelet in English), a study of the role of gastronomy in the novels of Balzac, was published in 2010.[6]
In 2017, her book, The Pen and the Brush: How Passion for Art Shaped Nineteenth-Century French Novels, was published by Other Press.
About the translator: Alex Andriesse was born in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, in 1985. His stories, essays, and poems have appeared in Granta, The Review of Contemporary Fiction, Prodigal, and Literary Imagination. He has translated several works from Italian and French, including Roberto Bazlen’s “Notes Without a Text and Other Writings” and, forthcoming François-René de Chateaubriand’s “Memoirs from Beyond the Grave”, 1800-1815” also an NYRB Classic.